The way I look at this is that Node in Docker,
as long as we're launching Node directly inside
the container, we have three options.
They're in order of least to
most preference. In other words,
the first one here is what I would consider sort of a temp
workaround. It's really easy to use
and you can use it on any container running Node right out-of-the-box.
Docker provides us tini.
It's actually built into Docker,
and what it'll do is it'll shim
with a --init on your docker run command.
It will shim that in,
or throw that in at the last second,
to run your command so that in case you're just running
raw Node and you're not handling signals correctly,
Docker will throw tini in there,
which will then shut down the app.
Now, it doesn't gracefully shut down connections
or anything like that. Again, that requires code,
but at least will allow us to do things like docker container
stop or hit control c,
and then the container will stop.
It won't wait 10 seconds
and then kill. By the way,
if you have apps in Node,
or any other apps that when you do something like a control c
or a docker container stop,
and it seems to wait about 10 seconds.
That's because Docker is not able to properly shut
it down with the SIGTERM and SIGINT.
It's forced to do a SIGKILL because
Docker, by default, will wait 10 seconds for the app to respond,
and then if it's not doing anything
or if it's taking too long,
it will just kill it.
Later on, we can talk about,
in production, that you can actually change that in case you have
a really long shutdown process.
You can totally configure Docker for something different.
Here, we're talking about these three options,
really, that are easy to use
and in order of preference.
So, that tini is my least favorite,
but what I use when I'm using someone else's app maybe
I don't want to have to rewrite their custom code.
Second here is a permanent workaround,
and this is you adding tini manually into
your Dockerfile. That way, it's always in your image.
You can control the version of that binary,
and you don't have to use the --init shim.
You can just specify it in your Dockerfile,
hard code it into your cmd so that it always works.
Always runs.
That's what you've seen in examples if you've taken my Docker Mastery course before.
That's what we did there.
If you have an app that maybe you don't control,
or you can't really change the app
but you know you need a permanent,
proper shutdown solution,
at least the best you can get, we can do this.
We can actually put it in the Dockerfile.
Again, that's not fixing the
end-to-end true production solution which is
what happens when I want to shut my container down in order to replace it
with a new update. Do I really want to terminate suddenly
everyone's connection if I'm a web server?
No. I probably want to handle each connection.
I want to count those connections.
Know how many are still left.
And if maybe I have long polling,
or WebSockets or something like that,
I want to make sure that I know how many connections are connected
to me and then shut them down,
or at least move them over properly to the new container,
and there's a way to do that.
We're not going to go through all those examples right now,
but I do want to show you a few.
The first example here is running init
at the command line. That's an option in docker run in
the last couple of years of versions of Docker at least.
This will shim in that tini process to make sure
that any Node app, or any app you really give it in a docker run,
that app will get this new PID1
that will wrap your node command
and will make sure that it properly handles it.
Again, this is like I've said before,
not properly handling your Node connections
but it will at least respond immediately to any control c
or docker stops.
This next command, or the second best solution,
is this permanent workaround I'm talking about by putting tini in
your Dockerfile.
That is available in the resources for this section.
You can actually look at the code for that.
It's a very simple binary.
Docker includes it but doesn't use it for anything,
by default, unless you put that --init.
Why don't we just put it into our Dockerfiles if
we're not able to do the long-term code solution
that I'll show you next.
This is what I might do if I'm maybe the Ops person
and I can't change the app myself.
I can't go in and edit the code. That's someone else's job.
But I can at least control the Dockerfile.
Since they're not handling the connections properly on shutdown,
I'll throw this in so that at least it responds correctly
in the three second or two second kind of normal shutdown process.
It won't wait 10 seconds
and then kill my app.
You'll also notice a neat little trick here,
and this has to do with using the entry point instead of changing your cmd.
This simply means that the entry point will run first
and wrap the cmd,
and this is kind of what Docker is doing in the background if you do
the --init from the command line.
But here, we're explicitly putting in our Dockerfile.
We're putting in a specific binary so we don't
have to worry that someone later might forget to run an
init on the command line.
It's always going to work inside the container.
Our third option here, I've given you a really basic example.
It doesn't solve every scenario,
for every type of workload,
but if you go check out this file in my sample
repo for this course,
you can see that it's a couple of functions that capture
the signals coming into your app
and then we'll decide what you want to do.
In my case, it's really just going to shut down
and exit the app right away.
It's not going to handle connections gracefully.
It's not going to wait for jobs to finish
or clean up any files you might be writing to,
or anything like that. That's very specific to each app.
We'll have some examples later in the production stuff
that'll show you maybe how you might try to handle counting
connections and managing connection rollover.